hello and welcome back to another video
luis from trade options with me dot-com
here in this video you will learn
everything you need to know about how
dividends work so first of all what are
dividends
well at the end of a certain time period
the company either has managed to
generate a profit or it has not managed
to generate a profit if it has managed
to generate a profit it has basically
two options the first choice would be to
reinvest their profits back into the
business or just keep them as reserves
for later and the second option would be
to redistribute these profits amongst
its shareholders the latter option is
also known as paying dividends this
means if you are an investor of a
company that pays out cash dividends you
will receive a certain cut of its
profits note however that the company
has this choice this means it does not
have to pay our dividends because of
this not all companies pay out dividends
in fact in 2018 out of the about 500
companies in the S&P 500 almost 20% did
not pay out any dividend as you now
hopefully know what dividends are let me
explain you how devlins work there are
four important dates that you have to
know when it comes to investing in
dividend paying stocks the first date is
the announcement date this is the date
on which the company announces that it
will pay out dividends during the time
in between the announcement date and the
next state which is the ex-dividend date
the stock price tends to increase by
about the amount of the dividend this is
the case because investors are willing
to pay a premium to receive the dividend
like I just said the next major debt is
the ex-dividend date this usually is a
few days after the announcement date and
it is on this state that the stock price
drops by the amount of the dividend
furthermore if you buy the stock on or
after the ex-dividend date you will not
receive any dividends this means if you
want to receive dividends we have to buy
the stock before the ex-dividend date
the reason why the short price drops by
the amount of the dividend on the
ex-dividend date is on the one hand to
prevent arbitrage opportunities and on
the other hand because theoretically the
company is worth less than it was before
paying dividends because it gave away
parts of its profit the next date is to
called the record date if you sell
before the record date you will not
receive any dividends either this means
you have to be long the stock between
the ex-dividend date and the record date
to be able to receive dividends note
that if you are sure to the stock in
this time you won't only not receive any
dividends you will actually have to pay
dividends so make sure to be careful
when shorting stocks that pay out
dividends in the near future the final
date is called the payment date and this
is the date on which you will receive
the dividend so if you sell your long
stock position before the payment date
but after the record date you will still
receive the dividend usually the
announcement date and the payment date
are only a few days apart but the exact
timeframe can vary from stock to stock
now that you know how a dividends work
and what dividends are let me explain
the different types of dividends that
exist the first and most common Tiverton
type is cash dividends when a company
pays cash dividend it simply distributes
its profits to its shareholders in the
form of cash
the amount is usually expressed in
aperture basis so this means if a
company declares a dividend of the size
of 50 cents per share this would mean
that you will receive 50 cents for every
share that you own in this company so
the more shares they own the more money
you will receive another type of
dividend is known as stock dividends
stock dividends aren't nearly as common
as cash dividends but they still exist
when a company declares stock dividends
that issues new shares of stock and
distributes these among its current
shareholders for instance if a company
declares a one percent stock dividend
you will receive one additional share
for every 100 shares that you already
own but note that the stock price will
be adjusted downward accordingly this
means that there will be dilution if a
company declares stock dividends in
essence stock dividends are the same as
very small stock splits one reason why
company might have stock dividends
instead of cash dividends is when it
does not have the cash available or if
it didn't manage to generate a profit in
the time frame the dividend payment
frequency can vary from stock to stock
the most common dividend frequency is
quarterly but some companies also only
pay out dividends on a semi-annual or
annual basis other stocks pay a dividend
even less frequently but generally
speaking companies do not change their
dividend payment frequency very often
next up let me compare common vs.
preferred dividends many companies have
more than one type of share class the
most common or normal share class is
also referred to as a common stock but
some companies have special usually less
liquid shares that are also known as
preference shares
often preference shareholders have some
distinct advantages over normal
shareholders especially when it comes to
dividends for example the size of the
dividend of common stockholders depends
on the size of the profit of the company
in the current timeframe however often
the size of the dividend for preferred
shareholders is fixed this can be seen
as a disadvantage or advantage depending
on the size of the fixed dividend versus
the current dividend for common
stockholders
next up the dividend payment frequency
could theoretically vary for common
shareholders this is not always the case
for preferred shareholders often the
dividend payment frequency for
preference shares is fixed so even if a
company does not manage to generate a
profit in a certain time frame preferred
shareholders may still have the right to
receive dividends furthermore preference
shareholders often have dividend
priority this means if the cash is
limited preferred shareholders received
the dividends before the common stock
shareholders with that being said like I
said earlier not all companies have
preference shares available and even
those that do don't always offer them to
the normal public furthermore the normal
share class common stock is much more
liquid than the preference shares the
different advantages and disadvantages
of preference shares versus common
stairs depends on the specific
preference shares of a certain company
next up let me explain the dividends
effect on options as the stock price is
adjusted as a part of the dividend
payment process option prices are also
affected due to the downward adjustment
on the ex-dividend date cool premiums
tend to be lower just before the exhibit
date and put premiums tend to be higher
right before the ex-dividend date in
addition to that the assignment risk for
short option positions especially for
short cores increases dramatically
leading up to the ex-dividend date this
is the case because many option traders
exercise their options right before the
ex-dividend date so that they will
receive the dividends this is the case
because you have to own shares of the
stock to receive dividends if your only
own options you won't receive any
dividends last but not least let me
present to you which stocks you should
buy for dividends note that's what I'm
gonna present next are just some general
guidelines I'm not going to name any
specific stocks that you should buy I'm
just giving you some guidelines that I
would recommend using when looking for
dividend stocks to invest in first of
all make sure that the company even pays
dividends if it does not pay dividends
then there's no point investing in the
stock for dividends furthermore aim for
consistently profitable companies
hopefully by now you understand that
dividends and especially the size of the
dividends are heavily correlated to the
profitability of a company if a company
does not manage to generate profit on a
consistent basis then it likely won't
pay out dividends on a consistent basis
the third tip is avoid volatility and
seek stability
as a dividend investor your main goal is
to invest for cash flow and not to
invest for growth this means you should
not aim for very speculative highly
volatile companies instead focus on
stable and consistently profitable
companies next up it's important to
understand that just because the
dividend yield of a certain company is
the highest in one year does not mean
that it's a good dividend investment
often stocks with slow and stable
dividend yield growth rates can be much
better than stocks with the highest
dividend yield in one year always
remember that the cash dividends are
paid by a company's profit so the
company pays out very high dividends
this might negatively impact the
company's future
besides that you should also consider
the overall market remember that most
stocks follow the overall market so if
the overall market is crashing you
should probably not buy dividend stocks
to receive dividends last but not least
make sure to buy before the ex-dividend
date if you don't do so you won't
receive the next dividend I really hope
you enjoyed this video and learned
something new if you have any questions
or comments please make sure to let me
know in the comment section below
I will do my best to help you out as
fast as possible with that being said
thanks so much for watching I truly hope
you enjoyed this video make sure to
subscribe for more content like this see
you in the next video
you